# Task-2-Movie-Recommendation-System

A Movie Recommendation System is an ML-based approach to filtering or predicting the users’ film preferences based on their past choices and behavior. It’s an advanced filtration mechanism that predicts the possible movie choices of the concerned user and their preferences towards a domain-specific item, aka movie.

Types of Recommendation Systems : 

**1. Collaborative Filtering :** 

This filtering strategy is based on the combination of the relevant user’s and other users’ behaviors. The system compares and contrasts these behaviors for the most optimal results. It’s a collaboration of the multiple users’ film preferences and behaviors.

There are two types of collaborative filtering:

* **User-based collaborative filtering :  The idea is to look for similar patterns in movie preferences in the target user and other users in the database.**
* **Item-based collaborative filtering : The basic concept here is to look for similar items (movies) that target users rate or interact with.**

**2. Content-Based Filtering :** 

A filtration strategy for movie recommendation systems, which uses the data provided about the items (movies). This data plays a crucial role here and is extracted from only one user. An ML algorithm used for this strategy recommends motion pictures that are similar to the user’s preferences in the past. Therefore, the similarity in content-based filtering is generated by the data about the past film selections and likes by only one user.

**We are going to use Content based recommendation system** 

 **Vectorization:**

To build a content-based movie recommendation system, the first step involves representing movies and their features in vectorized form. Vectorization is the process of converting textual or categorical data into numerical vectors, making it easier to perform mathematical operations and computations.


**“Movie Recommendation System”** is based on a **content-based filtering** approach. The dataset used is the TMDB dataset which contains valuable information about movies, such as titles, overviews, genres, keywords, cast, and crew details. Using this data we can build a recommendation system that suggests movies to users based on their preferences and past interactions.This will be achieved by using the vectorizing movie features, developing similarity metrics to measure movie similarity using cosine similarity, and building a recommendation mechanism. This recommendation system will provide personalized movie suggestions to users, enhancing their movie-watching experience. 


**Dataset Link :** https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata

